I would like to talk about a valuable asset that every one of us possesses time.
It certainly is something that is on our minds as we go about our day's activities.
Just think of how often you look at a clock, your watch, or your cell phone to check the time.
Why do we do that?
Probably to see if we are ahead of time, on time, behind time, or out of time.
But what exactly is time?
One dictionary says it is a non-spatial continuum.
Another says it is the thing that is measured as seconds, minutes, hours, days, and years.
To explain exactly what time is in simple terms is nearly impossible.
And the Bible does not define it, which may suggest that Jehovah knows it is beyond our ability to understand fully.
But the Bible does discuss time.
It shows that Jehovah is very time-conscious.
It speaks of time as something that we should use wisely.
And it gives us the amazing hope of living into infinity, that is endless time.
We do know this about time.
Every human has exactly the same number of hours and minutes in each day.
Rich people cannot buy more hours, and scientists cannot invent new minutes.
We can never recoup the time we have wasted, neither can we save it to spend on another day.
Just think, we have exactly the same number of hours to use each day that Jesus Christ had when He was on the earth.
And we can be sure that no human used His time more wisely than did God's Son.
It has been said that time is the most valuable thing a human can spend.
And so it is up to us how we will use the time that is at our disposal.
In this regard, there is a Bible principle that gives us good direction,
a principle that was shared with us by the Apostle Paul at Philippians 1, 9 and 10.
He wrote in verse 9,
and this is what I continue praying.
And in verse 10,
that you may make sure of the more important things.
Therefore, the theme of this month's program is, make time for the more important things.
This presents us with a twofold challenge.
First, we have to determine what are the more important things of life.
In the scripture we just read,
some Bible translations say,
have a sense of what is vital.
So we must distinguish between activities that are merely trivial and those that really matter.
In addition to the obligation to work to support one's family,
to care for necessary household chores,
to look after one's children or aging parents,
we have many important things of a spiritual nature that deserve our full attention,
reading and meditating on God's word,
studying the Bible personally and in family worship,
preparing for and attending congregation meetings,
caring for any responsibilities that we have in the congregation,
and participating in the Christian ministry.
Besides all of that,
who does not want some time to rest,
to exercise, to work in the garden,
to enjoy some recreation,
or to visit with family and friends?
Have you ever felt that you did not have enough time to do all those things
that you have difficulty fitting all the spiritual activities into your busy life?
As much as we might like to,
we cannot add an extra hour to our day,
or another day to our week, to accomplish more things.
So we have to be selective about how we spend the time that we have.
We will get the most accomplished if we prioritize the things that really matter.
Now what does that mean?
To prioritize means to decide which tasks are more important and to do them first.
In other words, decide what must be given attention prior to other things.
There is a Bible proverb that nicely illustrates the importance of prioritizing life's activities.
Proverbs 12-11 states,
the one who cultivates his land will be satisfied with food,
but the one pursuing worthless things is lacking good sense.
What a clear warning that is for a farmer,
not to fill up his day with worthless endeavors
and waste the precious time that he should be spending working in his field.
Likewise, a Christian who diligently cultivates his spirituality
can be confident of Jehovah's blessing,
whereas a person who is distracted by worthless activities
puts his relationship with God in danger.
How can we avoid that?
By not taking valuable time away from spiritual pursuits
to spend on the things that distract us from serving Jehovah whole soul?
For example, when it comes to communicating with others,
what should take priority?
Starting our day by giving Jehovah praise and thanks and prayer for another day of life?
Or telephoning an old friend to catch up on the latest news in his or her life?
There is nothing wrong with talking to a friend,
but we need to make sure we take the time to talk to our very best friend, Jehovah.
Obviously, it is more important to communicate with our Heavenly Father,
so praying to him should be a priority.
The Apostle Paul had more to say about time management
at Ephesians 5-15-17, he wrote,
so keep strict watch that how you walk is not as unwise but as wise persons,
making the best use of your time, because the days are wicked.
This account stopped being unreasonable,
but keep perceiving what the will of Jehovah is.
Now we can address the second part of our challenge
to make ample time to care for the more important things of life.
What does Paul's council to make the best use of your time actually mean?
Literally in Greek it means to buy out the appointed time.
That implies buying time at the expense of something else.
So it helps to analyze how our time is actually being spent
and to see what adjustments are needed so that we can buy out or make time
for the more important things.
If we perceive what the will of Jehovah is,
then we certainly will want to use as much time as possible
to forge an ever stronger relationship with him
and to share fully in sacred service.
Do you have definite periods set aside for the spiritual activities of life?
For congregation meetings, the schedule is set for us.
We know exactly when our congregation meets for its midweek and weekend meetings.
We just have to be sure that we did not let anything else get in the way of our attending
because the meetings are a priority.
Hebrews 10.25 says not to forsake them.
For everything else, reading the Bible, preparing for meetings, family worship,
field service activity, we have to set our own schedule
and stick to it as part of a good spiritual routine.
As an example, what does your family do most Saturday mornings?
Many families have the routine of going in field service every Saturday,
rarely is anything allowed to get in the way of that routine.
For them, Saturday morning is not the time for music lessons, dance classes,
cooking courses, working out at the gym or anything else.
It is their time for field service.
Having a routine like that makes life easier for everyone in the family.
No one has to wonder Friday night, what is going to happen Saturday morning?
The decision has already been made to go out in the ministry that day.
Otherwise, if we leave it up to chance every week, then it means that 52 times during the year,
we have to decide whether to go in service on Saturday.
How much simpler it is to make the decision once
and for all that we will use that time slot for the ministry,
barring any serious unforeseen circumstances.
Of course, given your family situation another day of the week may work better,
but you get the point.
Sharing regularly in the Christian ministry cannot be left up to chance.
At Mark 1310, Jesus prioritized the ministry when he said the good news
has to be preached first.
So if spiritual matters are going to take precedence in our lives,
we first have to make them priorities and second make ample time to care for those priorities.
That means setting aside definite periods of time to build up our spirituality
and to stay fully involved in our worship and service.
Ecclesiastes 3, verse 1, reinforces this thought.
It states, there is an appointed time for everything,
a time for every activity under the heavens.
We have to decide when that appointed time is for each of our spiritual activities.
If we are having difficulty with this,
can we shorten the time we spend on hobbies, recreation, sports, social networking,
and devote that time to our Bible reading, family worship, meeting preparation, or field ministry?
If we can, we will find it to be spiritually refreshing and invigorating.
This was the experience of a family man that I know.
He'll begin preparing better so as to participate each week
in the digging for spiritual jammer's portion of the midweek meeting.
He made time on Sunday evenings for this.
All in his family and congregation have benefited from the excellent points he has learned
as he does research on the assigned Bible reading.
And he feels good because of it.
One married couple decided to eliminate some of their hobbies and personal projects.
They even packed them up and put them out of sight.
Why?
So it's not to be distracted by those things.
They were non-essential activities that they decided they could do without.
Likely, we could all benefit from taking inventory of our lives
and limiting any unnecessary activities that may be interfering with our spiritual routine.
Imagine how rewarding that would be.
Just think if we could buy out 30 minutes each day
from doing something that is not essential.
That is about how much time it would take to read the entire Bible in one year.
Or if we could buy out an extra hour to each week for the field ministry.
Think of how much more we could accomplish.
And how happy that would make God in Christ
as they see us making time for the more important things.
Now why have we felt the need to spend this time discussing how to manage time?
It is because of something else that the Bible tells us.
First Corinthians 729 says that the time left is reduced.
That certainly is true of the time that is left between now and the great tribulation.
This is not the time to neglect the most important activity of all
our worship of Jehovah.